Email Product Marketing Ideas guaranteed to work 100% and are a sure way to increase online sales

If you have gathered an email list through a landing page, blog, etc. and you want to increase sales, here is a great idea that is proven to work 100% of the time. 

If you are already sending out a newsletter once a week with a few featured products ask your recipients to opt in for weekly product sales.

With this weekly product sales newsletter you will feature a maximum of thirty products and a few product reviews, product information, product news, etc. These product reviews, news, and information do not need to be products that you sell but products you can promote through an affiliate program; Why? For one reason, this is a way to check if you want to add similar products to your inventory. How? Usually when you sign up with a mass email sender service online, you can track link clicks. If  those products that you are not selling are getting a high click-through then you might want to start selling similar products. Another reason is to keep your list updated with new products on the market and make your newsletter more addictive.

Now, here comes the best part, I mentioned that you should feature a maximum of thirty product in your email. Well, isn't that a bit too much? NO it isn't. First, ask yourself, where do people (high percentage are teens) usually go – maybe hang out – and buy stuff?  The shopping malls of course. Many people, specially teenagers spend their weekends hanging out at the mall because they don't know what they want or they do and want to shop around before they . What does the mall have to do with an email with a list of thirty products? At every mall there are different stores that sell different products, this same way you will have a list of random products in your newsletter. By having random products in your list, your recipients will not feel that your online store is like any other niche store but more like a shopping mall. You will list your products one per row to assimilate window shopping.

Now that you have your weekly products sales newsletter ready to go, what is the best day to send it out? What day do people usually get paid? Fridays!

To make your list even better, break down your recipient list into subgroups of similar interests and create a newsletter for each subgroup with thirty products targeted to your subgroup.

Always remember to keep your email subject line consisten. Don't send out a newsletter with different subject lines everytime. For example,  "XCompany Newsletter" and the next week "Newsletter from XCompany" and so on. True believers and users of email keep their emails very organized and in order to do this, email users setup rules for incoming emails based on the subject line and if your subject line is inconsistent they will probably drop you.

If you or you know someone that has an email list and is sending out newsletters and product offers to this list, then you or that person you know should really read this article. This article has great ideas guaranteed to work 100% of the time and are a sure way to increase online sales.