marketing = proccess by which comapanies create value for customers and build strong customer relationship in order to capture value from customers in return.
Activity, set of institutions and processes for creating, communicating, delivering, and exchanging offerings that have value for customers, clients, partners, and society at large	

market - the set of all actual and potential buyers of a product or service

marketing process - understand needs and wants, design customer-driven strategy, deliver, build relationship and delight, capture value to create profits and customer equity

demarketing - reduce demand/customers

frequency marketing program - upgrades for returning clients, etc.

customer delight - exceptional value and service

customer-driving marketing - when customers don't knwo what they want or don't know what's possible

customer equity = sum of the lifetime values of all a company's current and potential customers.
reflection of company's future

wants are human needs as shaped by individual personality and culture.

customer evangelist - unpaid sales force

value proposition - why buy this and not competitor's -set of benefits a company promises to deliver

market offering = set of benefits to consumer

online marketing- fastest growing form of marketing

marketing myopia = losing sight of customer focus by focusing on product

needs=states of felt deprivation

customer lifetime value - value of the entire stream of purchases that the customer would make over a lifetime of patronage

customer perceived value - comparing, cost, etc.

highest customer perceived value - walmart

consumer generated marketing = commercials shot by customers

cross-selling - increase share of customers

societal marketing concept - markeitng decisions should condider customer wants, company's requirements, consumer long-run interest and society long-run interest.
Not only satisfying customer wants but also preserve or enhance individual’s and society’s long term best interests

selling concept = the idea that consumers will not buy enough unless a large scale selling promotion effort.


inside-out = attract willing buyers. selling concept

selective relationship management - seperating the rich from the poor

barnacles - cannot be made profitable
butterflies - profitable but not loyal

selling process 7 steps
lead generation
qualify leads
prepare and approach a customer
develop and propose solutions
handle objections
close sale
follow up

predatory - drive competitors out of business

marketing environment - Competitive, economic, political, legal, regulatory, technological, and sociocultural forces that surround customers and affect marketing mix	

Institutional Advertising	
promotes organizational ideas, images and political issues
-enhance a company's image rather than promoting a particular product

3 types of marketing research
descriptive- gathering and presenting factual statements
diagnostic- explaining data
prescriptive- "what if?"	

multidomestic marketing strategy
involves a multinational firm ofering as many different product variations, brand names, and advertising programs as countries in which they do business.	

Cause marketing
occurs when the charitable contributions of a firm are tied directly to the customer revenues produced through the promotion of one ofits products.	

Green marketing
consists of marketing efforts to produce, promote, and reclaim environmentally sensitive products.	

Gray market
is a situation where products are sold through unauthorized channels of distribution. Also called parallel importing. 

Segmentation Strategies
-undifferentiated
-concentrated
-multi-segment 

Social Audit
consists of a systematic assessment of a firm’s objectives, strategies, and performance in terms of social responsibility.	



Dumping
occurs when a firm sells a product in a foreign country below its domestic price or below its actual cost	

Consumer Bill of Rights (1962
codified the ethics of exchange between buyers and sellers, including the rights to safety, to be informed,to choose, and to be heard

pulsing scheduling
combines continuous and flighted

flighted scheduling
run heavily at certain intervals	

Market Segmentation
Process of dividing a total market into groups with relatively similar product needs to design a marketing mix that matches those needs	

buying behavior
-Need recognition
-information search
-alternative evaluation
-purchase decisions
-post-purchase behavior

channel intermedieries
-retailers
-merchant wholesaler
-agents or brokers

internet
fast growing
ability to reach narrow target audience
short lead time
moderate cost
difficult to measure ad effectiveness
ad exposure relies on "click through" from banner ads

7 stages of new product developement process
1. idea generation
2. idea screening
3. concept testing
4. business analysis
5. development
6. test marketing
7. commercialization

5 Steps in the research process
1. locating problem
2. design research project
3. collect data
4. interpret research findings
5. reporting research findings	

public relations
evaluates public attitudes
identifies issues of public concern
executes programs to gain public acceptance

4 i's of service
intangibility
inconsistency
inseparability
inventory

4 types of Decision-Making
Economic
Personal
Social Significance
problem solving	

promotion mix
advertising
public relations
sales promotion
personal selling

product mix
composite, or total, group of products that an organization makes available to customers	

cognitive dissonance (post purchase behavior)
inner tension that a consumer experiences after recognizing an inconsistency b/w behavior and values or opinion

TV
wide, diverse audience
low cost per thousand
immediacy of message
entertainment carryover
short life of message
high campaign cost
long term ad. commitments

Billboard
repetition
moderate cost
flexibility
geographic selectivity
short message
lack of demographic selectivity
high "noise" level	

Radio
low cost
immediacy of message
short notice scheduling
no seasonal audience change
highly portable
short term advertiser commitments
entertainment carryover
no visual treatment
short ad. life
high frequency to generate
background distractions
commercial clutter

yield management pricing
overbooking, discount early purchases

Retail Strategy Considerations	
location
positioning
store image
retailing mix	

Retailing	
All transactions in which buyer intends to consume the product through personal, family, or household use

Non-Store retailing
automated vending
direct retailing- face to face (schwans)
direct marketing- telephone, internet, to introduce products to customers that can buy over phone, internet, etc.
electronic retailing - amazon.com	

Types of Retail Stores
Merchandise Retailers:
Department (sears)
discount (wal-mart)
convenience (speedway)
supermarket (kroger)
Supercenter (wal-mart supercenter)
Specialty retailers:
traditional specialty (foot locker, radio shack)
category killers (home depot, staples)
off-price (T.J. Maxx)

sales oriented
market share
sales maximization
-ignores profits, competition, and mark. environment
-may be used to sell off excess inventory	

Segmentation Bases
Consumer Bases
Business-to-Business Bases

vulnerability phase
outlet now has higher prices, marins, status

advocacy advertising
company focuses on public issues like abortion, gun violence, and international trade

unsought good
product unknown to potential buyer or doesn't actively seek
ex: insurance, thesaurus

promotion during the product life cycle
intro: A, PR, SP
growth: A, PR, PS
maturity: SP, PS
decline: PS

Marketing mix
PRODUCT
oTangible goods, ideas and services
PRICE
oValue paid for a product in a marketing exchange
PROMOTION
oCommunication to build and maintain relationships by informing and persuading one or more audiences
DISTRIBUTION/PLACE
oDecisions and activities that make products available to customers when and where they want to purchase them

Entry Strategies of Global Marketing	
Exporting
licensing
contract manufacturing
joint venture
direct investment	